---
layout: post
title: T480 Linux Battery Issue
---

# T480 Battery issues

Recently i have accuired T480 lenovo and installed Centos7 on it.

I noticed that the battery management is not so good as per Windows 10 as the laptop has 10 battery and i only got around 4 hours of time using it.

Been searching around the net and found out that TLP can be used for battery management in Linux.

# Installing TLP

 `sudo yum install tlp tlp-rdw`

Test by starting TLP

    tlp start

Output

    TLP started in AC mode


Soon i realised that TLP wasnt working as expected as the kernel module acpi_call was missing

After some digging, found out that the packages can be installed [here](https://github.com/mkottman/acpi_call)

As for me below are how i did it

- Download or clone the github from mkottman
- Extract and edit acpi_call.c


    #include <acpi/acpi.h>
    #include <asm/uaccess.h>


with


    #include <linux/acpi.h>
    #include <linux/uaccess.h>

- Compile(If you run into issues compiling make sure that you have kernel-devel packages)


    make
    sudo make install


- If you run into issues on “can’t identify certificate”. I did the fix as below;

- Create config file(for this example is configuration_state.config). Note that you will need to only change the values in O, CN and emailAddress.


    [ req ]
    default_bits = 4096
    distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
    prompt = no
    string_mask = utf8only
    x509_extensions = myexts

    [ req_distinguished_name ]
    O = spinnaker
    CN = spinnaker
    emailAddress = wanazlan85@gmail.com

    [ myexts ]
    basicConstraints=critical,CA:FALSE
    keyUsage=digitalSignature
    subjectKeyIdentifier=hash
    authorityKeyIdentifier=keyid


- Create a new signing certificate

      openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -utf8 -sha256 -days 36500 -batch -config configuration_file.config -outform DER -out public_key.der -keyout private_key.priv

-  Load the key with MOKUTIL. When prompt with a password just enter any password you want


    mokutil --import public_key.der

- Reboot the machine and it will prompt for MOKUTIL, choose Enroll Key, and Key0. It will ask for a password, enter the password you choose previously.

- Once rebooted , check if the key is already signed

      keyctl list %:.system_keyring

Output should be something like


    [root@spinnaker ~]keyctl list %:.system_keyring | grep -i spinnaker
    68211213: --alswrv     0     0 asymmetric: spinnaker: 42XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
    [root@spinnaker ~]

- Sign the keys into the module(make sure that the .ko is created as mentioned above, using make install on previous step


    perl /usr/src/kernels/$(uname -r)/scripts/sign-file sha256 private_key.priv public_key.der acpi_call.ko

-  Install, load and verify the module


    insmod acpi_call.ko && modprobe -v acpi_call && lsmod | grep -i acpi_call
